blog: add beta.getmonero.org announcement (#2694)
monero-project/monero-site: _posts/2026-08-05-announcing-the-getmonero-org-beta.md

---
layout: post
title: Announcing beta.getmonero.org
summary: A redesigned getmonero.org is up at beta.getmonero.org. Feedback wanted.
tags: [announcements, community]
author: redsh4de
---

> getmonero.org has held up better than most sites of its age, but it is showing that age. It has looked and worked much the same way for a long time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
getmonero.org has held up better than most sites of its age. It has looked and worked much the same way since it went live in __i dont remember what year_
```

and add a screenshot of current website, making this the description (otherwise it doesnt  make sense to a reader seeing this on the new website's blog)

## Why a redesign?

The complaints have been steady for years. When a [redesign concept went up on r/Monero in 2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/pr8x6v/a_redesign_concept_for_wwwgetmoneroorg/), the thread was filled with people who had been waiting for one: *"The current site looks like a school project from 1999, it needs to be modern."* *"I too think the current layout is a bit outdated, and a facelift would be in order."*

A recurring worry was that the site sells the project short: a first-time visitor sees something amateur and draws conclusions about the technology behind it. By the time the website workgroup [put this question to the community in 2024](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/1felb8e/the_future_of_getmoneroorg_looking_for_feedback/), it was describing the site in those terms itself: the look was starting to feel "dated & amateur."

There were also complaints that had nothing to do with looks: outdated information, no technical explanation of how Monero actually works, and documentation buried too deep to find.

> Not everyone agreed. Open that thread today and the replies run mostly the other way: *"NAK. Current site works fine."* *"If it ain't broke don't fix it."* *"Dated and amateur is superior."* The fear was that a redesign would drift toward crypto-marketing gloss.

Reviewer: As stated in the workgroup, im not a fan of how this section makes it sound like the current design is a ancient POS that had overstayed it's welcome and had been on the chopping block for years, considering we were very close to scrapping the redesign idea and opting to simply move forward with a new backend.

  <figcaption style="font-size: 0.9em; opacity: 0.75; margin-top: 0.5rem;"><em>Front page weight on a desktop browser, measured on a first visit with an empty cache.</em></figcaption>
</figure>

**Guides are now live at [docs.getmonero.org](https://docs.getmonero.org).** The old guides on getmonero.org have been retired, which is most of what "documentation that is easy to find" was asking for.

**Icons that hold up in Tor Browser.** On the strictest security setting, Tor Browser blocks SVGs, commonly used for iconography. The beta uses a custom AVIF icon system, so the icons still render.

**Better right-to-left language support.** On the current site the text flips but the layout around it does not. The beta mirrors the whole page instead, and any right-to-left language added later gets that from the start. Arabic is live now.

**Built with Astro instead of Jekyll.** The current site needs an old Ruby setup and custom plugins to build, which puts off casual contributors. Astro is simpler to run and still ships plain HTML, with no client-side JavaScript.

## What is still in progress

A few things are still being worked on:

> **Illustrations.** Some have been carried over from the current site and sit awkwardly next to the new design; others are stand-ins. If illustration or design is something you do, this is one of the more useful places to contribute right now, and it does not require touching any code. Say so in `#monero-site` on [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/%23monero-site:monero.social) and we can point you at what needs replacing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Illustrations.** Some have been carried over from the current site and sit awkwardly next to the new design; others are stand-ins. If illustration or design is something you do, this is one of the more useful places to contribute right now, and it does not require touching any code. Say so in `#monero-site` on [Matrix] or [IRC] and we can point you at what needs replacing.
```

not sure if this trick works here

> **Languages.** English, Arabic, and Chinese are in place so far, compared to a considerably greater number of options on the current site. The translation setup is ready for the rest, and work is underway to bring the Weblate instance back up, so translating a page will not mean touching the repository. If there is a language you want to work on, say so in `#monero-site`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Languages.** English, Arabic, and Chinese are in place so far, compared to a considerably greater number of options on the current site. The translation setup is ready for the rest, and work is underway to bring the Weblate instance back up, so translating a page will not mean touching the repository. If there is a language you want to work on, say so in `#monero-site` on [Matrix] or [IRC].
```

Again, not sure if this trick works here

**Copy.** A few pages still carry placeholder or lightly-edited text, and some inherited content is out of date and needs rewriting rather than moving across. Moneropedia is the largest piece of this.

## Feedback

Before this becomes the site everyone lands on, it should be tested by the people who use it.

Useful things to report:

- **Broken things.** Layout problems, dead links, anything that misbehaves in Tor Browser, on a phone, or in a narrow window.
- **Things you could not find.** If you went looking for something and gave up, that is a navigation problem, and worth reporting along with what you were after.
- **Translation problems.** Text that overflows, reads wrong, or lays out incorrectly.
- **Accessibility problems.** Screen reader behaviour, keyboard navigation, contrast.
- **Content that is wrong or out of date.** Corrections are welcome.

Where to send it:

- **[GitHub issues](https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/issues)** for anything specific and reproducible. Put **`[beta]`** in the title, so it is clear the report is about the beta and not the current site.

> - **`#monero-site`** on [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/%23monero-site:monero.social) and [IRC](irc://irc.libera.chat/#monero-site) for discussion and questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`#monero-site`** on [Matrix] or [IRC] for discussion and questions.
```

---
layout: post
title: Announcing beta.getmonero.org
summary: A redesigned getmonero.org is up at beta.getmonero.org. Feedback wanted.
tags: [announcements, community]
author: redsh4de
---

getmonero.org has held up better than most sites of its age, but it is showing that age. It has looked and worked much the same way for a long time.

> A redesign concept by [rehrar](https://github.com/rehrar) (Diego Salazar) has been sitting in Figma since 2024, with community feedback gathered along the way. What was missing was an implementation. That work was [funded through CCS](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/redsh4de-getmonero-redesign.html), and the result is now up for testing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A redesign concept by [rehrar](https://github.com/rehrar) (Diego Salazar) has been sitting in Figma since 2024, with community feedback gathered along the way. What was missing was an implementation. That work was [funded through the CCS](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/redsh4de-getmonero-redesign.html), and the result is now up for testing:
```

### [beta.getmonero.org](https://beta.getmonero.org)

<figure style="margin: 1.5rem 0;">
  <img src="/blog/assets/2026-08-05-announcing-the-getmonero-org-beta/home.png" alt="The beta front page" style="border-radius: 8px;">
  <figcaption style="font-size: 0.9em; opacity: 0.75; margin-top: 0.5rem;"><em>The beta front page.</em></figcaption>
</figure>

> One thing to know before you look around. Parts of the beta describe Monero as it will work after FCMP++, not as it works today, because the switch is aimed at sometime after that upgrade lands. Anything that reads as wrong about Monero today may be describing that later state deliberately, so it is worth checking against the roadmap before filing it as an error. Everything else is fair game, and the timing also leaves room to finish the work listed below.

Reviewer 2: It also might be good to provide a link to the roadmap.

```suggestion
One thing to know before you look around: parts of the beta describe Monero as it will work after the FCMP++ upgrade, not as it works today, as the switch aims for some time after it lands. Anything that reads as wrong about Monero today may be describing that later state deliberately, so it is worth checking against the roadmap before filing it as an error. Everything else is fair game, and the timing also leaves room to finish the work listed below.
```

## Why a redesign?

> The complaints have been steady for years. When a [redesign concept went up on r/Monero in 2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/pr8x6v/a_redesign_concept_for_wwwgetmoneroorg/), the thread filled with people who had been waiting for one: *"The current site looks like a school project from 1999, it needs to be modern."* *"I too think the current layout is a bit outdated, and a facelift would be in order."*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The complaints have been steady for years. When a [redesign concept went up on r/Monero in 2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/pr8x6v/a_redesign_concept_for_wwwgetmoneroorg/), the thread was filled with people who had been waiting for one: *"The current site looks like a school project from 1999, it needs to be modern."* *"I too think the current layout is a bit outdated, and a facelift would be in order."*
```

> A recurring worry was that the site sells the project short: a first-time visitor sees something amateur and draws conclusions about the technology behind it. By the time the website workgroup [put the question to the community in 2024](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/1felb8e/the_future_of_getmoneroorg_looking_for_feedback/), it was describing the site in those terms itself: the look was starting to feel "dated & amateur."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A recurring worry was that the site sells the project short: a first-time visitor sees something amateur and draws conclusions about the technology behind it. By the time the website workgroup [put this question to the community in 2024](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/1felb8e/the_future_of_getmoneroorg_looking_for_feedback/), it was describing the site in those terms itself: the look was starting to feel "dated & amateur."
```

There were also complaints that had nothing to do with looks: outdated information, no technical explanation of how Monero actually works, and documentation buried too deep to find.

Not everyone agreed. Open that thread today and the replies run mostly the other way: *"NAK. Current site works fine."* *"If it ain't broke don't fix it."* *"Dated and amateur is superior."* The fear was that a redesign would drift toward crypto-marketing gloss.

Both sides raised specific objections, and those became the rules the beta was built against:

- No JavaScript required
- No landing-page gimmicks
- No dark-only theme

> - Mobile from the start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Designed for mobile from the start
```

- No increase in page weight
- Documentation that is easy to find

## What is new in the beta

Taking those rules in order.

> **Still no JavaScript.** Nothing runs in your browser, and no page asks anything of anyone else's server. Fonts and video are served from the site itself.

Reviewer 2: "Nothing runs in your browser" seems slightly misleading; it might be better to instead say that no scripts/JS run in the browser.

> **Follows your system theme.** Light or dark, matched to your OS setting, so neither camp gets a theme forced on them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Follows your system theme.** Light or dark, matched to your browser's settings, so neither camp gets a theme forced on them.
```

<figure style="margin: 1.5rem 0;">
  <img src="/blog/assets/2026-08-05-announcing-the-getmonero-org-beta/theme-light-dark.png" alt="The beta roadmap page, split in light and dark mode" style="border-radius: 8px;">

>   <figcaption style="font-size: 0.9em; opacity: 0.75; margin-top: 0.5rem;"><em>The roadmap page in light and dark.</em></figcaption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <figcaption style="font-size: 0.9em; opacity: 0.75; margin-top: 0.5rem;"><em>The roadmap page in light and dark mode.</em></figcaption>
```

</figure>

**Lighter than the site it replaces.** The front page transfers about a third of the bytes the current one does, which matters on a slow or expensive connection.

<figure style="margin: 1.5rem 0;">
  <img src="/blog/assets/2026-08-05-announcing-the-getmonero-org-beta/page-weight.png" alt="Chart comparing front page transfer size" style="border-radius: 8px;">
  <figcaption style="font-size: 0.9em; opacity: 0.75; margin-top: 0.5rem;"><em>Front page weight on a desktop browser, measured on a first visit with an empty cache.</em></figcaption>
</figure>

> **Guides now live at [docs.getmonero.org](https://docs.getmonero.org).** The old guides on getmonero.org are retired, which is most of what "documentation that is easy to find" was asking for.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Guides are now live at [docs.getmonero.org](https://docs.getmonero.org).** The old guides on getmonero.org have been retired, which is most of what "documentation that is easy to find" was asking for.
```

**Icons that hold up in Tor Browser.** On the strictest security setting, Tor Browser blocks SVGs, commonly used for iconography. The beta uses a custom AVIF icon system, so the icons still render.

## What is still in progress

A few things are still being worked on:

> **Illustrations.** Some are carried over from the current site and sit awkwardly next to the new design; others are stand-ins. If illustration or design is something you do, this is one of the more useful places to contribute right now, and it does not require touching any code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Illustrations.** Some have been carried over from the current site and sit awkwardly next to the new design; others are stand-ins. If illustration or design is something you do, this is one of the more useful places to contribute right now, and it does not require touching any code.
```

> **Languages.** English, Arabic and Chinese are in place so far, against considerably more on the current site. The translation setup is ready for the rest, and work is underway to bring the Weblate instance back up for easier localization.

Reviewer 2: This suggestion might be a bit verbose/overkill, but it sounds more clear, IMO.

```suggestion
**Languages.** English, Arabic, and Chinese are in place so far, compared to a considerably greater number of options on the current site. The translation setup is ready for the rest, and work is underway to bring the Weblate instance back up for easier localization.
```
